- (instructor)Before we get too much further
into the weeds of spring data, and repositories,
we need to get a database wired into our application.
So first and foremost, let's walk through
the process of wiring and embedded database.
So what I want you to do is to return to your ID
and open up our room web app,
and go to the pom file.
We're going to add a couple of dependencies here.
The first dependency that we are going to add
is spring, boot, starter data jpa.
And that's going to come from org dot spring framework boot,
and we don't need a version.
And the next element,
is we're going to actually do our database.
And this time we're going to use the h2 database.
This is a great embedded database,
and it's very SQL compliant for most operations.
Now,
let's let Maven do its thing and important projects.
Now, what I want you to notice is in the bin folder
of the exercise files, I've got several files here for you.
Some of these are shell scripts for Linux-based systems
but there's two sql files.
And I want you to take those,
and I want you to copy them not move them,
make sure you're copying them.
And I want you to put those
into source main resources of this module.
These include two very specifically named files.
One is schema dot sql,
and that provides the schema for our embedded database.
The other one is data dot sql,
and this provides the data that will go
into our embedded database.
So now that we have those files there,
we need to go add some properties.
So let's open up application.properties,
and source main resources.
And the first one that we want to do,
is we want to set logging level org, spring framework
jdbc data source init scriptutils,
we want to set this equal to debug.
Now,
the reason we're going to do this is so we can see output
that the database itself is actually being loaded,
when we start up our application.
Normally this isn't something you would do
in a production application.
The next thing that we're going to do is we're
going to set the spring console.
So spring h2 console enabled,
we're going to set that equal to true.
That's going to give us a web-based way of viewing
the data that's in our database.
And the last thing that we're going to do is we're
going to actually set a data source URL to be in memory.
And this is a pretty standard pattern.
So the driver URL is jdbc h2 mem
indicating that it's in memory test db.
Now with that, we're ready to start our application.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We're going to select our room web application and run it.
Let's take a look here
at the console output a little bit.
As we scroll up,
you'll see that there's a whole bunch of sql statements
they got logged,
and these are actually the SQL statements
from our data file.
If you scroll up, you'll see a couple more,
and those are the DDL statements to create our tables.
Now, before we finish up, let's go to a web browser,
in inner web browser, I want you to connect
to local host 80 80/h2-console.
And you'll see we get an embedded console.
Now we need to change the driver to match what we put
into our properties file.
So JDBC H2 mem test db,
because we didn't specify a username,
and password we can leave those blank, go ahead and connect.
And now if you go to the employee table,
and you run just a simple select star,
you'll see all of the data that existed in our data file.
And the same thing will happen
if you go to the room table and run it
you'll see all of our room data.
And that's all we need to do to get an embedded database up
and running with spring boot.